SUN COMMUNITY SOURCE LICENSE Version 2.8 (Rev.  Date January 17, 2001)

RECITALS

Original Contributor has developed Specifications and Source Code
implementations of certain Technology; and

Original Contributor desires to license the Technology to a large
community to facilitate research, innovation andproduct development
while maintaining compatibility of such products with the Technology
as delivered by Original Contributor; and

Original Contributor desires to license certain Sun Trademarks for the
purpose of branding products that are compatible with the relevant
Technology delivered by Original Contributor; and

You desire to license the Technology and possibly certain Sun
Trademarks from Original Contributor on the terms and conditions
specified in this License.

In consideration for the mutual covenants contained herein, You and
Original Contributor agree as follows:

AGREEMENT

1.  Introduction.  The Sun Community Source License and effective
attachments ("License") may include five distinct licenses: Research
Use, TCK, Internal Deployment Use, Commercial Use and Trademark
License.  The Research Use license is effective when You execute this
License.  The TCK and Internal Deployment Use licenses are effective
when You execute this License, unless otherwise specified in the TCK
and Internal Deployment Use attachments.  The Commercial Use and
Trademark licenses must be signed by You and Original Contributor in
order to become effective.  Once effective, these licenses and the
associated requirements and responsibilities are cumulative.
Capitalized terms used in this License are defined in the Glossary.

2.  License Grants.

2.1.  Original Contributor Grant.  Subject to Your compliance with
Sections 3, 8.10 and Attachment A of this License, Original
Contributor grants to You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
license, to the extent of Original Contributor's Intellectual Property
Rights covering the Original Code, Upgraded Code and Specifications,
to do the following:

a) Research Use License: (i) use, reproduce and modify the Original
Code, Upgraded Code and Specifications to create Modifications and
Reformatted Specifications for Research Use by You, (ii) publish and
display Original Code, Upgraded Code and Specifications with, or as
part of Modifications, as permitted under Section 3.1 b) below, (iii)
reproduce and distribute copies of Original Code and Upgraded Code to
Licensees and students for Research Use by You, (iv) compile,
reproduce and distribute Original Code and Upgraded Code in Executable
form, and Reformatted Specifications to anyone for Research Use by
You.

b) Other than the licenses expressly granted in this License, Original
Contributor retains all right, title, and interest in Original Code
and Upgraded Code and Specifications.

2.2.  Your Grants.

a) To Other Licensees.  You hereby grant to each Licensee a license to
Your Error Corrections and Shared Modifications, of the same scope and
extent as Original Contributor's licenses under Section 2.1 a) above
relative to Research Use, Attachment C relative to Internal Deployment
Use, and Attachment D relative to Commercial Use.

b) To Original Contributor.  You hereby grant to Original Contributor
a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual and irrevocable
license, to the extent of Your Intellectual Property Rights covering
Your Error Corrections, Shared Modifications and Reformatted
Specifications, to use, reproduce, modify, display and distribute Your
Error Corrections, Shared Modifications and Reformatted
Specifications, in any form, including the right to sublicense such
rights through multiple tiers of distribution.

c) Other than the licenses expressly granted in Sections 2.2 a) and b)
above, and the restriction set forth in Section 3.1 d)(iv) below, You
retain all right, title, and interest in Your Error Corrections,
Shared Modifications and Reformatted Specifications.

2.3.  Contributor Modifications.  You may use, reproduce, modify,
display and distribute Contributor Error Corrections, Shared
Modifications and Reformatted Specifications, obtained by You under
this License, to the same scope and extent as with Original Code,
Upgraded Code and Specifications.

2.4.  Subcontracting.  You may deliver the Source Code of Covered Code
to other Licensees having at least a Research Use license, for the
sole purpose of furnishing development services to You in connection
with Your rights granted in this License.  All such Licensees must
execute appropriate documents with respect to such work consistent
with the terms of this License, and acknowledging their
work-made-for-hire status or assigning exclusive right to the work
product and associated Intellectual Property Rights to You.

3.  Requirements and Responsibilities.

3.1.  Research Use License.  As a condition of exercising the rights
granted under Section 2.1 a) above, You agree to comply with the
following:

a) Your Contribution to the Community.  All Error Corrections and
Shared Modifications which You create or contribute to are
automatically subject to the licenses granted under Section 2.2 above.
You are encouraged to license all of Your other Modifications under
Section 2.2 as Shared Modifications, but are not required to do so.
You agree to notify Original Contributor of any errors in the
Specification.

b) Source Code Availability.  You agree to provide all Your Error
Corrections to Original Contributor as soon as reasonably practicable
and, in any event, prior to Internal Deployment Use or Commercial Use,
if applicable.  Original Contributor may, at its discretion, post
Source Code for Your Error Corrections and Shared Modifications on the
Community Webserver.  You may also post Error Corrections and Shared
Modifications on a web-server of Your choice; provided, that You must
take reasonable precautions to ensure that only Licensees have access
to such Error Corrections and Shared Modifications.  Such precautions
shall include, without limitation, a password protection scheme
limited to Licensees and a click-on, download certification of
Licensee status required of those attempting to download from the
server.  An example of an acceptable certification is attached as
Attachment A-2.

c) Notices.  All Error Corrections and Shared Modifications You create
or contribute to must include a file documenting the additions and
changes You made and the date of such additions and changes.  You must
also include the notice set forth in Attachment A-1 in the file
header.  If it is not possible to put the notice in a particular
Source Code file due to its structure, then You must include the
notice in a location (such as a relevant directory file), where a
recipient would be most likely to look for such a notice.

d) Redistribution.

(i) Source.  Covered Code may be distributed in Source Code form only
to another Licensee (except for students as provided below).  You may
not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Code that alter the
rights, requirements, or responsibilities of such Licensee.  You may
distribute Covered Code to students for use in connection with their
course work and research projects undertaken at accredited educational
institutions.  Such students need not be Licensees, but must be given
a copy of the notice set forth in Attachment A-3 and such notice must
also be included in a file header or prominent location in the Source
Code made available to such students.

(ii) Executable.  You may distribute Executable version(s) of Covered
Code to Licensees and other third parties only for the purpose of
evaluation and comment in connection with Research Use by You and
under a license of Your choice, but which limits use of such
Executable version(s) of Covered Code only to that purpose.

(iii) Modified Class, Interface and Package Naming. In connection with
Research Use by You only, You may use Original Contributor's class,
interface and package names only to accurately reference or invoke the
Source Code files You modify.  Original Contributor grants to You a
limited license to the extent necessary for such purposes.

(iv) Modifications.  You expressly agree that any distribution, in
whole or in part, of Modifications developed by You shall only be done
pursuant to the term and conditions of this License.

e) Extensions.

(i) Covered Code.  You may not include any Source Code of Community
Code in any Extensions;

(ii) Publication.  No later than the date on which You first
distribute such Extension for Commercial Use, You must publish to the
industry, on a non-confidential basis and free of all copyright
restrictions with respect to reproduction and use, an accurate and
current specification for any Extension.  In addition, You must make
available an appropriate test suite, pursuant to the same rights as
the specification, sufficiently detailed to allow any third party
reasonably skilled in the technology to produce implementations of the
Extension compatible with the specification.  Such test suites must be
made available as soon as reasonably practicable but, in no event,
later than ninety (90) days after Your first Commercial Use of the
Extension.  You must use reasonable efforts to promptly clarify and
correct the specification and the test suite upon written request by
Original Contributor.

(iii) Open.  You agree to refrain from enforcing any Intellectual
Property Rights You may have covering any interface(s) of Your
Extension, which would prevent the implementation of such interface(s)
by Original Contributor or any Licensee.  This obligation does not
prevent You from enforcing any Intellectual Property Right You have
that would otherwise be infringed by an implementation of Your
Extension.

(iv) Class, Interface and Package Naming.  You may not add any
packages, or any public or protected classes or interfaces with names
that originate or might appear to originate from Original Contributor
including, without limitation, package or class names which begin with
"sun", "java", "javax", "jini", "net.jini", "com.sun" or their
equivalents in any subsequent class, interface and/or package naming
convention adopted by Original Contributor.  It is specifically
suggested that You name any new packages using the "Unique Package
Naming Convention" as described in "The Java Language Specification"
by James Gosling, Bill Joy, and Guy Steele, ISBN 0-201-63451-1, August
1996.  Section 7.7 "Unique Package Names", on page 125 of this
specification which states, in part:

"You form a unique package name by first having (or belonging to an
organization that has) an Internet domain name, such as "sun.com".
You then reverse the name, component by component, to obtain, in this
example, "Com.sun", and use this as a prefix for Your package names,
using a convention developed within Your organization to further
administer package names."

3.2.  Additional Requirements and Responsibilities.  Any additional
requirements and responsibilities relating to the Technology are
listed in Attachment F (Additional Requirements and Responsibilities),
if applicable, and are hereby incorporated into this Section 3.

4.  Versions of the License.

4.1.  License Versions.  Original Contributor may publish revised
versions of the License from time to time.  Each version will be given
a distinguishing version number.

4.2.  Effect.  Once a particular version of Covered Code has been
provided under a version of the License, You may always continue to
use such Covered Code under the terms of that version of the License.
You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms of any
subsequent version of the License.  No one other than Original
Contributor has the right to promulgate License versions.

5.  Disclaimer of Warranty.

5.1.  COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE "AS IS," WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.  YOU
AGREE TO BEAR THE ENTIRE RISK IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE AND
DISTRIBUTION OF COVERED CODE UNDER THIS LICENSE.  THIS DISCLAIMER OF
WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE.  NO USE OF ANY
COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT SUBJECT TO THIS
DISCLAIMER.

5.2.  You acknowledge that Original Code, Upgraded Code and
Specifications are not designed or intended for use in (i) on-line
control of aircraft, air traffic, aircraft navigation or aircraft
communications; or (ii) in the design, construction, operation or
maintenance of any nuclear facility.  Original Contributor disclaims
any express or implied warranty of fitness for such uses.

6.  Termination.

6.1.  By You.  You may terminate this Research Use license at anytime
by providing written notice to Original Contributor.

6.2.  By Original Contributor.  This License and the rights granted
hereunder will terminate: (i) automatically if You fail to comply with
the terms of this License and fail to cure such breach within 30 days
of receipt of written notice of the breach; (ii) immediately in the
event of circumstances specified in Sections 7.1 and 8.4; or (iii) at
Original Contributor's discretion upon any action initiated in the
first instance by You alleging that use or distribution by Original
Contributor or any Licensee, of Original Code, Upgraded Code, Error
Corrections or Shared Modifications contributed by You, or
Specifications, infringe a patent owned or controlled by You.

6.3.  Effect of Termination.  Upon termination, You agree to
discontinue use and return or destroy all copies of Covered Code in
your possession.  All sublicenses to the Covered Code which you have
properly granted shall survive any termination of this License.
Provisions which, by their nature, should remain in effect beyond the
termination of this License shall survive including, without
limitation, Sections 2.2, 3, 5, 7 and 8.

6.4.  Each party waives and releases the other from any claim to
compensation or indemnity for permitted or lawful termination of the
business relationship established by this License.

7.  Liability.

7.1.  Infringement.  Should any of the Original Code, Upgraded Code,
TCK or Specifications ("Materials") become the subject of a claim of
infringement, Original Contributor may, at its sole option, (i)
attempt to procure the rights necessary for You to continue using the
Materials, (ii) modify the Materials so that they are no longer
infringing, or (iii) terminate Your right to use the Materials,
immediately upon written notice, and refund to You the amount, if any,
having then actually been paid by You to Original Contributor for the
Original Code, Upgraded Code and TCK, depreciated on a straight line,
five year basis.

7.2.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  TO THE FULL EXTENT ALLOWED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR'S LIABILITY TO YOU FOR CLAIMS
RELATING TO THIS LICENSE, WHETHER FOR BREACH OR IN TORT, SHALL BE
LIMITED TO ONE HUNDRED PERCENT (100%) OF THE AMOUNT HAVING THEN
ACTUALLY BEEN PAID BY YOU TO ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR FOR ALL COPIES
LICENSED HEREUNDER OF THE PARTICULAR ITEMS GIVING RISE TO SUCH CLAIM,
IF ANY.  IN NO EVENT WILL YOU (RELATIVE TO YOUR SHARED MODIFICATIONS
OR ERROR CORRECTIONS) OR ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE (INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, LOSS OF PROFITS, USE, DATA, OR OTHER ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE),
HOWEVER IT ARISES AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
FOR CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR
OTHERWISE, WHETHER OR NOT YOU OR ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR HAS BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF
ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY REMEDY.

8.  Miscellaneous.

8.1.  Trademark.  You agree to comply with the then current Sun
Trademark & Logo Usage Requirements accessible through the SCSL
Webpage.  Except as expressly provided in the License, You are granted
no right, title or license to, or interest in, any Sun Trademarks.
You agree not to (i) challenge Original Contributor's ownership or use
of Sun Trademarks; (ii) attempt to register any Sun Trademarks, or any
mark or logo substantially similar thereto; or (iii) incorporate any
Sun Trademarks into your own trademarks, product names, service marks,
company names, or domain names.

8.2.  Integration.  This License represents the complete agreement
concerning the subject matter hereof.

8.3.  Assignment.  Original Contributor may assign this License, and
its rights and obligations hereunder, in its sole discretion.  You may
assign the Research Use portions of this License to a third party upon
prior written notice to Original Contributor (which may be provided
via the Community Web-Server).  You may not assign the Commercial Use
license or TCK license, including by way of merger (regardless of
whether You are the surviving entity) or acquisition, without Original
Contributor's prior written consent.

8.4.  Severability.  If any provision of this License is held to be
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
necessary to make it enforceable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
You are prohibited by law from fully and specifically complying with
Sections 2.2 or 3, this License will immediately terminate and You
must immediately discontinue any use of Covered Code.

8.5.  Governing Law.  This License shall be governed by the laws of
the United States and the State of California, as applied to contracts
entered into and to be performed in California between California
residents.  The application of the United Nations Convention on
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.

8.6.  Dispute Resolution.

a) Any dispute arising out of or relating to this License shall be
finally settled by arbitration as set out herein, except that either
party may bring any action, in a court of competent jurisdiction
(which jurisdiction shall be exclusive), with respect to any dispute
relating to such party's Intellectual Property Rights or with respect
to Your compliance with the TCK license.  Arbitration shall be
administered: (i) by the American Arbitration Association (AAA), (ii)
in accordance with the rules of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) (the "Rules") in effect at the time
of arbitration as modified herein; and (iii) the arbitrator will apply
the substantive laws of California and United States.  Judgment upon
the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court
having jurisdiction to enforce such award.

b) All arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in English by a
single arbitrator selected in accordance with the Rules, who must be
fluent in English and be either a retired judge or practicing attorney
having at least ten (10) years litigation experience and be reasonably
familiar with the technology matters relative to the dispute.  Unless
otherwise agreed, arbitration venue shall be in London, Tokyo, or San
Francisco, whichever is closest to defendant's principal business
office.  The arbitrator may award monetary damages only and nothing
shall preclude either party from seeking provisional or emergency
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.  The arbitrator shall
have no authority to award damages in excess of those permitted in
this License and any such award in excess is void.  All awards will be
payable in U.S.  dollars and may include, for the prevailing party (i)
pre-judgment award interest, (ii) reasonable attorneys' fees incurred
in connection with the arbitration, and (iii) reasonable costs and
expenses incurred in enforcing the award.  The arbitrator will order
each party to produce identified documents and respond to no more than
twenty-five single question interrogatories.

8.7.  Construction.  Any law or regulation which provides that the
language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall
not apply to this License.

8.8.  U.S.  Government End Users.  The Covered Code is a "commercial
item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct.  1995),
consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial computer
software documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R.  12.212
(Sept.  1995).  Consistent with 48 C.F.R.  12.212 and 48 C.F.R.
227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S.  Government End
Users acquire Covered Code with only those rights set forth herein.
You agree to pass this notice to Your licensees.

8.9.  Press Announcements.  All press announcements relative to the
execution of this License must be reviewed and approved by Original
Contributor and You prior to release.

8.10.  International Use.

a) Export/Import Laws.  Covered Code is subject to U.S. export control
laws and may be subject to export or import regulations in other
countries.  Each party agrees to comply strictly with all such laws
and regulations and acknowledges their responsibility to obtain such
licenses to export, re-export, or import as may be required.  You
agree to pass these obligations to Your licensees.

b) Intellectual Property Protection.  Due to limited intellectual
property protection and enforcement in certain countries, You agree
not to redistribute the Original Code, Upgraded Code, TCK and
Specifications to any country other than the list of restricted
countries on the SCSL Webpage.

8.11.  Language.  This License is in the English language only, which
language shall be controlling in all respects, and all versions of
this License in any other language shall be for accommodation only and
shall not be binding on the parties to this License.  All
communications and notices made or given pursuant to this License, and
all documentation and support to be provided, unless otherwise noted,
shall be in the English language.

PLEASE READ THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE CAREFULLY.  BY CLICKING ON THE
"ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW YOU ARE ACCEPTING AND AGREEING TO THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE WITH SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC.  IF YOU ARE
AGREEING TO THIS LICENSE ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY, YOU REPRESENT THAT
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO BIND THE COMPANY TO SUCH A LICENSE.  WHETHER YOU
ARE ACTING ON YOUR OWN BEHALF, OR REPRESENTING A COMPANY, YOU MUST BE
OF MAJORITY AGE AND BE OTHERWISE COMPETENT TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.
IF YOU DO NOT MEET THIS CRITERIA OR YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ANY OF THE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE, CLICK ON THE REJECT BUTTON TO
EXIT.

ACCEPT REJECT

GLOSSARY

1.  "Commercial Use" means any use (excluding Internal Deployment Use)
or distribution, directly or indirectly of Compliant Covered Code by
You to any third party, alone or bundled with any other software or
hardware, for direct or indirect commercial or strategic gain or
advantage, subject to execution of Attachment D by You and Original
Contributor.

2.  "Community Code" means the Original Code, Upgraded Code, Error
Corrections, Shared Modifications, or any combination thereof.

3.  "Community Webserver(s)" means the webservers designated by
Original Contributor for posting Error Corrections and Shared
Modifications.

4.  "Compliant Coverqed Code" means Covered Code that complies with the requirements of the TCK.

5.  "Contributor" means each Licensee that creates or contributes to
the creation of any Error Correction or Shared Modification.

6.  "Covered Code" means the Original Code, Upgraded Code,
Modifications, or any combination thereof.

7.  "Error Correction" means any change made to Community Code which
conforms to the Specification and corrects the adverse effect of a
failure of Community Code to perform any function set forth in or
required by the Specifications.

8.  "Executable" means Covered Code that has been converted to a form
other than Source Code.

9.  "Extension(s)" means any additional classes or other programming
code and/or interfaces developed by or for You which: (i) are designed
for use with the Technology; (ii) constitute an API for a library of
computing functions or services; and (iii) are disclosed to third
party software developers for the purpose of developing software which
invokes such additional classes or other programming code and/or
interfaces.  The foregoing shall not apply to software development by
Your subcontractors to be exclusively used by You.

10.  "Intellectual Property Rights" means worldwide statutory and
common law rights associated solely with (i) patents and patent
applications; (ii) works of authorship including copyrights, copyright
applications, copyright registrations and "moral rights"; (iii) the
protection of trade and industrial secrets and confidential
information; and (iv) divisions, continuations, renewals, and
re-issuances of the foregoing now existing or acquired in the future.

11.  "Internal Deployment Use" means use of Compliant Covered Code
(excluding Research Use) within Your business or organization only by
Your employees and/or agents, subject to execution of Attachment C by
You and Original Contributor, if required.

12.  "Licensee" means any party that has entered into and has in
effect a version of this License with Original Contributor.

13.  "Modification(s)" means (i) any change to Covered Code; (ii) any
new file or other representation of computer program statements that
contains any portion of Covered Code; and/or (iii) any new Source Code
implementing any portion of the Specifications.

14.  "Original Code" means the initial Source Code for the Technology
as described on the Technology Download Site.

15.  "Original Contributor" means Sun Microsystems, Inc., its
affiliates and its successors and assigns.

16.  "Reformatted Specifications" means any revision to the
Specifications which translates or reformats the Specifications (as
for example in connection with Your documentation) but which does not
alter, subset or superset the functional or operational aspects of the
Specifications.

17.  "Research Use" means use and distribution of Covered Code only
for Your research, development, educational or personal and individual
use, and expressly excludes Internal Deployment Use and Commercial
Use.

18.  "SCSL Webpage" means the Sun Community Source license webpage
located at http://sun.com/software/communitysource, or such other url
that Original Contributor may designate from time to time.

19.  "Shared Modifications" means Modifications provided by You, at
Your option, pursuant to Section 2.2, or received by You from a
Contributor pursuant to Section 2.3.

20.  "Source Code" means computer program statements written in any
high-level, readable form suitable for modification and development.

21.  "Specifications" means the specifications for the Technology and
other documentation, as designated on the Technology Download Site, as
may be revised by Original Contributor from time to time.

22.  "Sun Trademarks" means Original Contributor's SUN, JAVA, and JINI
trademarks and logos, whether now used or adopted in the future.

23.  "Technology" means the technology described in Attachment B, and
Upgrades.

24.  "Technology Compatibility Kit" or "TCK" means the test programs,
procedures and/or other requirements, designated by Original
Contributor for use in verifying compliance of Covered Code with the
Specifications, in conjunction with the Original Code and Upgraded
Code.  Original Contributor may, in its sole discretion and from time
to time, revise a TCK to correct errors and/or omissions and in
connection with Upgrades.

25.  "Technology Download Site" means the site(s) designated by
Original Contributor for access to the Original Code, Upgraded Code,
TCK and Specifications.

26.  "Upgrade(s)" means new versions of Technology designated
exclusively by Original Contributor as an Upgrade and released by
Original Contributor from time to time.

27.  "Upgraded Code" means the Source Code for Upgrades, possibly
including Modifications made by Contributors.

28.  "You(r)" means an individual, or a legal entity acting by and
through an individual or individuals, exercising rights either under
this License or under a future version of this License issued pursuant
to Section 4.1.  For legal entities, "You(r)" includes any entity that
by majority voting interest controls, is controlled by, or is under
common control with You.

ATTACHMENT A REQUIRED NOTICES

ATTACHMENT A-1 REQUIRED IN ALL CASES

"The contents of this file, or the files included with this file, are
subject to the current version of Sun Community Source License for
[fill in name of applicable Technology] (the "License"); You may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a
copy of the License at http:// sun.com/software/communitysource.  See
the License for the rights, obligations and limitations governing use
of the contents of the file.

The Original and Upgraded Code is [fill in name of applicable
Technology].  The developer of the Original and Upgraded Code is Sun
Microsystems, Inc.  Sun Microsystems, Inc.  owns the copyrights in the
portions it created.  All Rights Reserved.

Contributor(s):
_______________________________________________

Associated Test Suite(s) Location:
________________________________"

ATTACHMENT A-2 SAMPLE LICENSEE CERTIFICATION

"By clicking the 'Agree' button below, You certify that You are a
Licensee in good standing under the Sun Community Source License,
[fill in name of applicable Technology] ("License") and that Your
access, use and distribution of code and information You may obtain at
this site is subject to the License."

ATTACHMENT A-3 REQUIRED STUDENT NOTIFICATION

"This software and related documentation has been obtained by your
educational institution subject to the Sun Community Source License,
[fill in name of applicable Technology].  You have been provided
access to the software and related documentation for use only in
connection with your course work and research activities as a
matriculated student of your educational institution.  Any other use
is expressly prohibited.

THIS SOFTWARE AND RELATED DOCUMENTATION CONTAINS PROPRIETARY MATERIAL
OF SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC, WHICH ARE PROTECTED BY VARIOUS INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS.

You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You
may obtain a copy of the License on the web at
http://sun.com/software/ communitysource."

ATTACHMENT B

Java (tm) Platform, Standard Edition, JDK 1.2.x Source Technology

Description of "Technology" 

Java (tm) Platform, Standard Edition, JDK 1.2.x Source Technology as
described on the Technology Download Site.

ATTACHMENT C INTERNAL DEPLOYMENT USE

This Attachment C is only effective for the Technology specified in
Attachment B, upon execution of Attachment D (Commercial Use License)
including the requirement to pay royalties.  In the event of a
conflict between the terms of this Attachment C and Attachment D, the
terms of Attachment D shall govern.

1.  Internal Deployment License Grant.  Subject to Your compliance
with Section 2 below, and Section 8.10 of the Research Use license; in
addition to the Research Use license and the TCK license, Original
Contributor grants to You a worldwide, non-exclusive license, to the
extent of Original Contributor's Intellectual Property Rights covering
the Original Code, Upgraded Code and Specifications, to do the
following:

a) reproduce and distribute internally, Original Code and Upgraded
Code as part of Compliant Covered Code, and Specifications, for
Internal Deployment Use,

b) compile such Original Code and Upgraded Code, as part of Compliant
Covered Code, and reproduce and distribute internally the same in
Executable form for Internal Deployment Use, and

c) reproduce and distribute internally, Reformatted Specifications for
use in connection with Internal Deployment Use.

 2.  Additional Requirements and Responsibilities.  In addition to the
 requirements and responsibilities described under Section 3.1 of the
 Research Use license, and as a condition to exercising the rights
 granted under Section 3 above, You agree to the following additional
 requirements and responsibilities:

2.1.  Compatibility.  All Covered Code must be Compliant Covered Code
prior to any Internal Deployment Use or Commercial Use, whether
originating with You or acquired from a third party.  Successful
compatibility testing must be completed in accordance with the TCK
License.  If You make any further Modifications to any Covered Code
previously determined to be Compliant Covered Code, you must ensure
that it continues to be Compliant Covered Code.

ATTACHMENT D COMMERCIAL USE LICENSE

[Contact Sun Microsystems For Commercial Use Terms and Conditions] 
 
 
ATTACHMENT E TECHNOLOGY COMPATIBILITY KIT

The following license is effective for the Java (tm) Platform,
Standard Edition, JDK 1.2.x Technology Compatibility Kit only upon
execution of a separate support agreement between You and Original
Contributor (subject to an annual fee) as described on the SCSL
Webpage.  The applicable Technology Compatibility Kit for the
Technology specified in Attachment B may be accessed at the Technology
Download Site only upon execution of the support agreement.

1.  TCK License.

a) Subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 1.b below and
Section 8.10 of the Research Use license, in addition to the Research
Use license, Original Contributor grants to You a worldwide,
non-exclusive, non-transferable license, to the extent of Original
Contributor's Intellectual Property Rights in the TCK (without the
right to sublicense), to use the TCK to develop and test Covered Code.

b) TCK Use Restrictions.  You are not authorized to create derivative
works of the TCK or use the TCK to test any implementation of the
Specification that is not Covered Code.  You may not publish your test
results or make claims of comparative compatibility with respect to
other implementations of the Specification.  In consideration for the
license grant in Section 1.a above you agree not to develop your own
tests which are intended to validate conformation with the
Specification.

2.  Requirements for Determining Compliance.

2.1.  Definitions.

a) "Added Value" means code which:

	(i) has a principal purpose which is substantially different
	from that of the stand-alone Technology;

	(ii) represents a significant functional and value enhancement
	to the Technology;

	(iii) operates in conjunction with the Technology; and

	(iv) is not marketed as a technology which replaces or
	substitutes for the Technology.

b) "Java Classes" means the specific class libraries associated with
each Technology defined in Attachment B.

c) "Java Runtime Interpreter" means the program(s) which implement the
Java virtual machine for the Technology as defined in the
Specification.

d) "Platform Dependent Part" means those Original Code and Upgraded
Code files of the Technology which are not in a share directory or
subdirectory thereof.

e) "Shared Part" means those Original Code and Upgraded Code files of
the Technology which are identified as "shared" (or words of similar
meaning) or which are in any "share" directory or subdirectory
thereof, except those files specifically designated by Original
Contributor as modifiable.

f) "User's Guide" means the users guide for the TCK which Original
Contributor makes available to You to provide direction in how to run
the TCK and properly interpret the results, as may be revised by
Original Contributor from time to time.

2.2.  Development Restrictions.  Compliant Covered Code:

	a) must include Added Value;

	b) must fully comply with the Specifications for the
	Technology specified in Attachment B;

	c) must include the Shared Part, complete and unmodified;

	d) may not modify the functional behavior of the Java Runtime
	Interpreter or the Java Classes;

	e) may not modify, subset or superset the interfaces of the
	Java Runtime Interpreter or the Java Classes;

	f) may not subset or superset the Java Classes;

	g) may not modify or extend the required public class or
	public interface declarations whose names begin with "java",
	"javax", "jini", "net.jini", "sun.hotjava", "COM.sun" or their
	equivalents in any subsequent naming convention;

	h) Profiles.  The following provisions apply if You are
	licensing a Java Platform, Micro Edition Connected Device
	Configuration, Java Platform, Micro Edition Connected Limited
	Device Configuration and/or a Profile:

		(i) Profiles may not include an implementation of any
		part of a Profile or use any of the APIs within a
		Profile, unless You implement the Profile in its
		entirety in conformance with the applicable
		compatibility requirements and test suites as
		developed and licensed by Original Contributor or
		other authorized party.  "Profile" means: (A) for Java
		Platform, Micro Edition Connected Device
		Configuration, Foundation Profile, Personal Profile or
		such other profile as may be developed under or in
		connection with the Java Community Process or as
		otherwise authorized by Original Contributor; (B) for
		Java Platform, Micro Edition Connected Limited Device
		Configuration, Java Platform, Micro Edition, Mobile
		Information Device Profile or such other profile as
		may be developed under or in connection with the Java
		Community Process or as otherwise authorized by
		Original Contributor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
		nothing herein shall be construed as eliminating or
		modifying Your obligation to include Added Value as
		set forth in Section 2.2(a), above; and

		(ii) Profile(s) must be tightly integrated with, and
		must be configured to run in conjunction with, an
		implementation of a Configuration from Original
		Contributor (or an authorized third party) which meets
		Original Contributor's compatibility requirements.
		"Configuration" means, as defined in Original
		Contributor's compatibility requirements, either (A)
		Java Platform, Micro Edition Connected Device
		Configuration; or (B) Java Platform, Micro Edition
		Connected Limited Device Configuration.

		(iii) A Profile as integrated with a Configuration
		must pass the applicable TCK for the Technology.

2.3.  Compatibility Testing.  Successful compatibility testing must be
completed by You, or at Original Contributor's option, a third party
designated by Original Contributor to conduct such tests, in
accordance with the User's Guide.  A Technology must pass the
applicable TCK for the Technology.  You must use the most current
version of the applicable TCK available from Original Contributor one
hundred twenty (120) days (two hundred forty [240] days in the case of
silicon implementations) prior to: (i) Your Internal Deployment Use;
and (ii) each release of Compliant Covered Code by You for Commercial
Use.  In the event that You elect to use a version of Upgraded Code
that is newer than that which is required under this Section 2.3, then
You agree to pass the version of the TCK that corresponds to such
newer version of Upgraded Code.

2.4.  Test Results.  You agree to provide to Original Contributor or
the third party test facility if applicable, Your test results that
demonstrate that Covered Code is Compliant Covered Code and that
Original Contributor may publish or otherwise distribute such test
results. 
